# RegEx Tutorial: Hex Value
Regex stand for regular expression. It is used to specify search patterns and expressions. It can allow for specific requirments when searching for certain things such as emails, urls, usernames, hex values, or numerous other things. 


## Summary

/^#?([a-f0-9]{6}|[a-f0-9]{3})$/
This is a hex value regex.
- /regex/ surround the regex
- ^ indicates the position of the beginning of the string which in this case is the hex value.
- () indicate the capturing group, there is only one in this instance.
- [] indicates a character set
    - a-f requires a match of lowercase letters ranging from a-f
    - 0-9 requires a number that ranges from 0-9
- {6} a quantifier that will require a match of exactly 6 characters from the character set
- | is an alternation, or an OR operator. This makes it so the expression before the | and after the | can be matched.
- [] the second character set.
    - a-f requires a match lowercase letters ranging from a-f
    - 0-9 requires a number that ranges from 0-9
- {3} a quantifier that will require a match of exactly 3 characters from the character set
- $ indicates the end of the string

## Table of Contents

- [Anchors](#anchors)
- [Quantifiers](#quantifiers)
- [OR Operator](#or-operator)
- [Character Classes](#character-classes)
- [Flags](#flags)
- [Grouping and Capturing](#grouping-and-capturing)
- [Bracket Expressions](#bracket-expressions)
- [Greedy and Lazy Match](#greedy-and-lazy-match)
- [Boundaries](#boundaries)
- [Back-references](#back-references)
- [Look-ahead and Look-behind](#look-ahead-and-look-behind)

## Regex Components

### Anchors
* Anchors are used to match a position in a string. 
* ^ is used to show the begining of a string or of a line.
* $ is used at the end of a string or line. 
* \b matches a word boundry position between a word and a non-word charater or position.
* \B Matches any postion that is not a word boundry. This matches a postion, not a character. 

### Quantifiers
* Quantifiers are used to match any preceding characters a certain number of times. 
* (+) plus: Matches one or more of the preceding token
* (*) star: Matches 0 or more of the preceding token.
* {1,3} quantifier: Matches specified quantity of the previous token.
* ? optional matches 0 or 1 of the preceding token, effectively making it optional.
* Alternation | :Acts like a boolean OR. Matches expression before or after the |. 

### OR Operator
* Alternation | :Acts like a boolean OR. Matches expression before or after the |.

### Character Classes
* Character classes match a character from a specific set. Therer a number of predefined character classes and you can define your own.
* [ABC] character set: matches any character in a set
* [^ABC] negated set: matches any character not in a set
* [A-Z] range: matches a character haveing a code bewtween to specified characters inclusive.
* . dot: matches any character except line breaks.
* [\s\S] match any: A character set that can be used to match any character, including line breaks without the dotall flag (s). alternative [^] 
* \w word: matches any word character alphanumeric and underscore. Only matches low-ascii characters (no accented or no-roman chacters)
* \W not word: matches any character that is not a word character.
* \d digit: Matches any digit character (0-9).
* \D not digit: Matches any character that is not a digit character.
* \s whitespace: matches any whitespace characters (spaces, tabs, line breaks)
* \S not whitespace: Matches any character that is not a whitespace character
* \p{L} unicode category: Matches a character in the specidied unicode category
* \P{L} not unicode category: Matches any character not in the specified unicde category.
* \p{Han} unicode script: matches any character in the specified unicode script.
* \P{Han} not unicode script: matches any character that is not in the specified unicode script

### Flags
* Expression flages change how the expression is interpreted. Flags follow the closing forward slash of the expression.
* i ignore case: Makes the hwole expression case-insensitive.
* g global search: Retain the index of the last match, allowing subsequent searches to start from the end of the previous match. Without global flag,subsequent searches will return the same match.
* m multiline: When multiline flag is enables, beginning and end anchors (^ and $) will match the start and end of a line, instead of the start and end of the whole string.
* u unicode: When the unicode flag is enabled, you can use extended unicode escapes in the form of \x{FFFFF}. It also makes other escapes stricter causing unrecognized escapes to throw an error.
* y sticky: The expression will only match from its lastIndex position and ignores the global flag if set.
* s dotall: Dot(.) will match any character, including newline. 

### Grouping and Capturing
* Groups allow you to combine a sequence of tokens to operate on them together. Capture groups can be regenerated by a backreference and accessed separately in the results.
* capturing group (ABC): groups tokens together and creates a capture group for extracting a substring or using a backreference
* name capturing group (?<name>ABC): Creates a capturing group taht can be referenced via the specified name.
* numeric reference \1: Matches the results of a captuer group.
* non-capturing group (?:ABC): Groups multiple tokens together without creating a capture group.
* $1: inserts the results of the specified capture group 

### Bracket Expressions
* Bracket expressions consist of either a matching list expression or a non-matching list expression

### Greedy and Lazy Match
* By default quantifiers are greedy, and will match as many characters as possible.
* Lazy or ? makes the preceding quantifier lazy, causing it to match as few characters as possible. 

### Boundaries
* Boundaries define what is immediately left or right of the current position. 
* \b matches a word boundry position between a word and a non-word charater or position.
* \B Matches any postion that is not a word boundry. This matches a postion, not a character. 

### Back-references
* A back-reference looks for a previously matched group and matches exactly the same text again. 

### Look-ahead and Look-behind
* Both called lookaround. 
* positive lookahead (?=ABC): Matches a group after the main expression without including it in the result.
* negative lookahead (?!ABC): Specifies a group that cannot match after the main expression.
* postive lookbehind ((?<=ABC): Matches a group before the main expression without including it in the result
* negative lookbehind (?<!ABC>): Specifies a group that cannot match before the main expression. 

## Author

My name is Samantha Heilman. I am a web developer in training at Case Western Reserve University bootcamp and I am currently learning about regex. 
GitHub: https://github.com/smaheilman

## References
- https://regexr.com/
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression